quarto_project/masters_info.md, before:

# Doing your master's thesis in QMCM

## Rules
You can find general rules for the master thesis [here](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/en/undervisning/regler/afsluttende-projekter/kandidatspeciale).  
Keep in mind that each master can have specific rules for the master's thesis, so make sure to check the info page of your master to get the best information.

## Getting started
Here's some information on general things you will need before / when you start the thesis:

### External supervisor
One of the rules for master's thesis at DTU is that at least one supervisor **must** be a professor at DTU.  
As of April 2024 DTU Biosustain is a semi-independent institute and no one at the center holds the title of professor at DTU.
You will need to find a supervisor from another center at DTU that can help with the administrative stuff.  
Try asking teachers from courses with a similar topic or your head of studies.

### How to get access to the building
Contact **reception**. They can add access permission to your student profile at DTU.  
You will need to scan your DTU card every time you want to enter the building.
If you want to access the building outside working hours you will need to enter the PIN of your card.  
By default the PIN is 2800 (DTU's postal code). You can change the PIN at [DTUbasen](https://www.dtubasen.dtu.dk/)

### IT equipment
IT has laptops for students in case you need one. Ask your master thesis supervisor at *QMCM* if you need one.  
*FYI*: The laptops that IT has for students are recycled from previous employees, and can be quite old (3+ years). I would not recommend asking for one unless you really need it.

## Project plan
One month after you start your thesis you need to submit a project plan. 
This document, although official, is not graded.  
The purpose of this document is to make you think about your project and plan approximately when will you do everything.
It needs to include a **description** of what you will be doing during the thesis and an approximate **timeline**.  
The project plan does not need to be very detailed, and doesn't need to be followed (although ideally you would follow it).  

## How to find an external examiner

Commit message:

Extra master thesis info. I added information on finding an external censor for the thesis defence and fixed a small typo.

quarto_project/masters_info.md, after:

# Doing your master's thesis in QMCM

## Rules
You can find general rules for the master thesis [here](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/en/undervisning/regler/afsluttende-projekter/kandidatspeciale).  
Keep in mind that each master can have specific rules for the master's thesis, so make sure to check the info page of your master to get the best information.

## Getting started
Here's some information on general things you will need before / when you start the thesis:

### External supervisor
One of the rules for master's thesis at DTU is that at least one supervisor **must** be a professor at DTU.  
As of April 2024 DTU Biosustain is a semi-independent institute and no one at the center holds the title of professor at DTU.
You will need to find a supervisor from another center at DTU that can help with the administrative stuff.  
Try asking teachers from courses with a similar topic or your head of studies.

### How to get access to the building
Contact **reception**. They can add access permission to your student profile at DTU.  
You will need to scan your DTU card every time you want to enter the building.
If you want to access the building outside working hours you will need to enter the PIN of your card.  
By default the PIN is 2800 (DTU's postal code) or the last four digits of the card number (rear of the card, bottom left). You can change the PIN at [DTUbasen](https://www.dtubasen.dtu.dk/)

### IT equipment
IT has laptops for students in case you need one. Ask your master thesis supervisor at *QMCM* if you need one.  
*FYI*: The laptops that IT has for students are recycled from previous employees, and can be quite old (3+ years). I would not recommend asking for one unless you really need it.

## Project plan
One month after you start your thesis you need to submit a project plan. 
This document, although official, is not graded.  
The purpose of this document is to make you think about your project and plan approximately when will you do everything.
It needs to include a **description** of what you will be doing during the thesis and an approximate **timeline**.  
The project plan does not need to be very detailed, and doesn't need to be followed (although ideally you would follow it).  

## How to find an external examiner
For the defense you will need to find an external examinor (from outside of DTU), apart from your supervisors.
You can find all the external examinors on [CensorNet](https://www.info.censornet.dk/english/). 
To see the examinors, log in through DTU in "Employee at institution", and select the civil censorcorps. Most of the relevant censors will be under Civil - Kemi.  
Ideally the examinor should have experience on the topic your thesis is about. Unfortunately, that is not displayed in CensorNet. You will need to search on the internet, papers, etc. what the potenial examinor is working on and decide based on that.
