quarto_project/phd_thesis.md, before:

# PhD submission and defence

## Preparations (3 months before thesis submission)

The submission at the end of the 3-year PhD is more than submission of the PhD thesis alone. The following documents have to prepared and submitted as well, either beforehand or simultaneously with the PhD thesis. To ensure a smooth PhD submission, the documents apart from the PhD thesis can be submitted before the hand-in date to be approved already.

### PhD submission checklist

The [PhD submission checklist form](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/-/media/dtu-inside/undervisning/undervisningsadministration/phd-uddannelse-administratorer/skemaer) has to be filled out and signed before submission together with the PhD thesis. All components of the checklist are listed below, but the checklist itself should not be forgotten.

### Approval of the assessment committee

The [assessment committee approval form](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/-/media/dtu-inside/undervisning/undervisningsadministration/phd-uddannelse-administratorer/skemaer/assessment-committee-members.pdf) has to be filled out and signed before sending it to the PhD school to be approved. For the assessment committee, 3 members are required: one from DTU and two external, preferably from outside Denmark. Anyone you have collaborated and/or published with is exempt from taking part in your assessment committee. The approval form should be send for approval around 3 months before the PhD submission to allow for sufficient time for the approval, since the PhD school committee only meets once a month. It is advisable to start contacting potential assessment committee members around 6 months before your hand-in date, because it can take some time to find them. Please note that a CV and publication list of each assessment committee member are required as an attachment to the approval form.

### Co-author statements

The main chapters of the PhD thesis are usually published or unpublished manuscripts and thus require co-author statments: one per chapter/manuscript. So, the [co-author statement form](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/-/media/dtu-inside/undervisning/undervisningsadministration/phd-uddannelse-administratorer/skemaer/co-author-statement.docx) has to be filled out and signed separately for each chapter/manuscript with the corresponding authors. An example of a filled-out co-author statement form can be found [here](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/-/media/dtu-inside/undervisning/undervisningsadministration/phd-uddannelse-administratorer/skemaer/co-author-statement-example.pdf). Once all co-author statement forms are completed, they can be compiled into one file and submitted with the other documents for the final PhD submission.

### Popular science summary

The [popular science summary](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/-/media/dtu-inside/undervisning/undervisningsadministration/phd-uddannelse-administratorer/skemaer/popular-summary.docx) will be send out with the announcement of the PhD defense, but needs to be submitted within the PhD submission.

### Supervisor report

The supervisor report goes through PhDigital and is initialised by the PhD student one month before the hand-in date. The supervisor report has to be submitted and **approved** before the hand-in date, so this is an important part of the PhD submission.

## PhD thesis submission

There are a few guidelines to consider for the PhD thesis itself, however most of the thesis is up to the PhD student and their preferences. Generally, the PhD thesis includes 3 main chapters which can be either published articles or unpublished manuscripts, a general introduction chapter, and a conclusions and recommendations chapter. It is crucial to check the guidelines of scientific journals if published articles or unpublished manuscripts are allowed to be imbedded in the PhD thesis in their original format. PhD thesis titles need to be comprehensible and enticing to a potential reader, while at the same time not being so general and vague as to obscure what the PhD thesis is about. Furthermore, titles should be concise and informative. Abbreviations and formulae should be avoided where possible. It is recommended to include a few keywords in the title to aid web-searches.

### Templates

There is no official template for the PhD thesis document, but you can adapt the [general DTU report template](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/en/medarbejder/om-dtu-campus-og-bygninger/kommunikation-og-design/skabeloner/rapporter?rfb=eyJwIjpmYWxzZSwidWlkIjoiMjYzMTA5ODgtYWViOS00YzAyLWI1ZWQtNDg0NDIwZTZjZGJhIiwic2NwIjoiaW50ZXJuYWwiLCJrYmlkIjozNTAsInNpZCI6InZ4STZqcTJ5WkJPeW02d0JkcGlWMnciLCJhaWQiOjI1MjgzNywic2VjaWQiOjkyMTM3MjQ3LCJzdCI6IndlYl9zY3JhcGUifQ) to fit the thesis. Official DTU logos, colours and other templates can be found in the [DTU design guide](https://designguide.dtu.dk/). Please note that the document should be set as a two-page rather than a one-page document, since the final thesis will be printed double-sided as a book format.

### Preface of the PhD thesis

For inspiration on the structure of the PhD thesis, it can be useful to refer to previous PhD theses from the DTU Biosustain department. The preface section typically uses Roman numerals as the page numbering. The first page should contain the title of the thesis, the month and year of submission, author name, the copyright and the department publishing the thesis. Following this should be a page with the written approval which should be dated and signed by the PhD student. Afterwards follows the abstract, the Danish abstract, list of publications, acknowledgements, table of contents, and list of figures and tables.

### Cover design

For the cover, there is a template available from the [DTU design guide PhD thesis section](https://designguide.dtu.dk/print), but most PhD students produce their own cover design. The cover should as a minimum have the DTU logo in the top left corner, the DTU department in the top right corner, the title of the PhD thesis and the name of the PhD student. Please refer to the [DTU design guide logo section](https://designguide.dtu.dk/logo) for the appropriate use of the DTU logo, department name, etc. The cover is allowed to be any colour, but it is important to know that the spine of the printed PhD thesis can only be selected from 12 different DTU colours. So, if you want the colour of the cover to match the colour of the spine, please refer to the colour codes in the section below in advance.


## PhD defence (within 3 months of PhD thesis submission)



### Printing of the PhD thesis



* Log into Fusion and select "Procurement" in the main menu. 
* Choose "Purchase Requisitions (Search)"
* Enter "step print power" in the search field
* Click on "Step Print Power - External Store" in the search results

Available colours and corresponding CYMK codes for the spine and cover of the printed PhD thesis:

![Available spine colours](Spine_colours.png)

* DTU red (0, 91, 72, 23)
* Black (20, 20, 10, 100)
* Blue (100, 64, 0, 0)
* Dark blue (100, 90, 0, 60)
* Purple (67, 96, 0, 0)
* Red (0, 86, 65, 0)
* Orange (0, 35, 26, 0)
* Pink (0, 35, 26, 0)
* Yellow (0, 19, 84, 0)
* Bright green (69, 0, 66, 0)
* Green (89, 5, 100, 17)
* Grey (0, 0, 0, 20)

For the shipping on the printed PhD theses, the official address for DTU Biosustain is: Søltofts Plads, bygning 220, 2800 Lyngby. For the billing, the [official EAN numbers list](https://www.dtu.dk/Om-DTU/kontakt-og-besoeg/for-leverandoerer/samhandel-med-dtu/ean-numre) states the EAN number for DTU Biosustain: 5798000430297.

Commit message:

Add contact details of PhD school

quarto_project/phd_thesis.md, after:

# PhD submission and defence

## Preparations (3 months before thesis submission)

The submission at the end of the 3-year PhD is more than submission of the PhD thesis alone. The following documents have to prepared and submitted as well, either beforehand or simultaneously with the PhD thesis. To ensure a smooth PhD submission, the documents apart from the PhD thesis can be submitted before the hand-in date to be approved already. All documents should be submitted to the [PhD school of DTU Biosustain](CFB-PhD@biosustain.dtu.dk).

### PhD submission checklist

The [PhD submission checklist form](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/-/media/dtu-inside/undervisning/undervisningsadministration/phd-uddannelse-administratorer/skemaer) has to be filled out and signed before submission together with the PhD thesis. All components of the checklist are listed below, but the checklist itself should not be forgotten.

### Approval of the assessment committee

The [assessment committee approval form](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/-/media/dtu-inside/undervisning/undervisningsadministration/phd-uddannelse-administratorer/skemaer/assessment-committee-members.pdf) has to be filled out and signed before sending it to the PhD school to be approved. For the assessment committee, 3 members are required: one from DTU and two external, preferably from outside Denmark. Anyone you have collaborated and/or published with is exempt from taking part in your assessment committee. The approval form should be send for approval around 3 months before the PhD submission to allow for sufficient time for the approval, since the PhD school committee only meets once a month. It is advisable to start contacting potential assessment committee members around 6 months before your hand-in date, because it can take some time to find them. Please note that a CV and publication list of each assessment committee member are required as an attachment to the approval form.

### Co-author statements

The main chapters of the PhD thesis are usually published or unpublished manuscripts and thus require co-author statments: one per chapter/manuscript. So, the [co-author statement form](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/-/media/dtu-inside/undervisning/undervisningsadministration/phd-uddannelse-administratorer/skemaer/co-author-statement.docx) has to be filled out and signed separately for each chapter/manuscript with the corresponding authors. An example of a filled-out co-author statement form can be found [here](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/-/media/dtu-inside/undervisning/undervisningsadministration/phd-uddannelse-administratorer/skemaer/co-author-statement-example.pdf). Once all co-author statement forms are completed, they can be compiled into one file and submitted with the other documents for the final PhD submission.

### Popular science summary

The [popular science summary](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/-/media/dtu-inside/undervisning/undervisningsadministration/phd-uddannelse-administratorer/skemaer/popular-summary.docx) will be send out with the announcement of the PhD defense, but needs to be submitted within the PhD submission.

### Supervisor report

The supervisor report goes through PhDigital and is initialised by the PhD student one month before the hand-in date. The supervisor report has to be submitted and **approved** before the hand-in date, so this is an important part of the PhD submission.

## PhD thesis submission

There are a few guidelines to consider for the PhD thesis itself, however most of the thesis is up to the PhD student and their preferences. Generally, the PhD thesis includes 3 main chapters which can be either published articles or unpublished manuscripts, a general introduction chapter, and a conclusions and recommendations chapter. It is crucial to check the guidelines of scientific journals if published articles or unpublished manuscripts are allowed to be imbedded in the PhD thesis in their original format. PhD thesis titles need to be comprehensible and enticing to a potential reader, while at the same time not being so general and vague as to obscure what the PhD thesis is about. Furthermore, titles should be concise and informative. Abbreviations and formulae should be avoided where possible. It is recommended to include a few keywords in the title to aid web-searches. The final PhD thesis should be submitted to the [PhD school of DTU Biosustain](CFB-PhD@biosustain.dtu.dk).

### Templates

There is no official template for the PhD thesis document, but you can adapt the [general DTU report template](https://www.inside.dtu.dk/en/medarbejder/om-dtu-campus-og-bygninger/kommunikation-og-design/skabeloner/rapporter?rfb=eyJwIjpmYWxzZSwidWlkIjoiMjYzMTA5ODgtYWViOS00YzAyLWI1ZWQtNDg0NDIwZTZjZGJhIiwic2NwIjoiaW50ZXJuYWwiLCJrYmlkIjozNTAsInNpZCI6InZ4STZqcTJ5WkJPeW02d0JkcGlWMnciLCJhaWQiOjI1MjgzNywic2VjaWQiOjkyMTM3MjQ3LCJzdCI6IndlYl9zY3JhcGUifQ) to fit the thesis. Official DTU logos, colours and other templates can be found in the [DTU design guide](https://designguide.dtu.dk/). Please note that the document should be set as a two-page rather than a one-page document, since the final thesis will be printed double-sided as a book format.

### Preface of the PhD thesis

For inspiration on the structure of the PhD thesis, it can be useful to refer to previous PhD theses from the DTU Biosustain department. The preface section typically uses Roman numerals as the page numbering. The first page should contain the title of the thesis, the month and year of submission, author name, the copyright and the department publishing the thesis. Following this should be a page with the written approval which should be dated and signed by the PhD student. Afterwards follows the abstract, the Danish abstract, list of publications, acknowledgements, table of contents, and list of figures and tables.

### Cover design

For the cover, there is a template available from the [DTU design guide PhD thesis section](https://designguide.dtu.dk/print), but most PhD students produce their own cover design. The cover should as a minimum have the DTU logo in the top left corner, the DTU department in the top right corner, the title of the PhD thesis and the name of the PhD student. Please refer to the [DTU design guide logo section](https://designguide.dtu.dk/logo) for the appropriate use of the DTU logo, department name, etc. The cover is allowed to be any colour, but it is important to know that the spine of the printed PhD thesis can only be selected from 12 different DTU colours. So, if you want the colour of the cover to match the colour of the spine, please refer to the colour codes in the section below in advance.


## PhD defence (within 3 months of PhD thesis submission)



### Printing of the PhD thesis



* Log into Fusion and select "Procurement" in the main menu. 
* Choose "Purchase Requisitions (Search)"
* Enter "step print power" in the search field
* Click on "Step Print Power - External Store" in the search results

Available colours and corresponding CYMK codes for the spine and cover of the printed PhD thesis:

![Available spine colours](Spine_colours.png)

* DTU red (0, 91, 72, 23)
* Black (20, 20, 10, 100)
* Blue (100, 64, 0, 0)
* Dark blue (100, 90, 0, 60)
* Purple (67, 96, 0, 0)
* Red (0, 86, 65, 0)
* Orange (0, 35, 26, 0)
* Pink (0, 35, 26, 0)
* Yellow (0, 19, 84, 0)
* Bright green (69, 0, 66, 0)
* Green (89, 5, 100, 17)
* Grey (0, 0, 0, 20)

For the shipping on the printed PhD theses, the official address for DTU Biosustain is: Søltofts Plads, bygning 220, 2800 Lyngby. For the billing, the [official EAN numbers list](https://www.dtu.dk/Om-DTU/kontakt-og-besoeg/for-leverandoerer/samhandel-med-dtu/ean-numre) states the EAN number for DTU Biosustain: 5798000430297.
